~ title: Course description and policies

List the [Course readings][readings].

   [readings]: index.html

## Course Description and Policies

CS 195 is a discussion-intensive course about the social implications of
computing. The purpose of this course is to help you and your fellow computer
science students make informed and thoughtful choices about your careers,
your participation in society, and your future development activities.
Readings and lecture topics are drawn from a range of fields that together
seek to describe our contemporary global society: sociology, philosophy,
economics, public policy, education, and journalism.

**Meetings.** The weekly class meetings will include short presentations by the
instructors, lots of small group discussions among students, and full-class
moderated discussions.

**Surveys.** Discussion questions will not be determined only by the wisdom of
your instructors. Instead, you will collectively choose your own adventure
through the material. A brief survey about the upcoming topic will be emailed
to the class each Friday. By 11:59pm on Tuesday before class, you will complete
a the survey, in which you can vote on the issues or questions most interesting
to you. The results of these surveys will guide our discussions.

**Summaries.** The topics discussed in this class are all broad and deep, and
so the course includes a small mountain of reading. You are not expected to
read it all, but you should definitely read about the topics that interest you
the most. For the rest, your classmates will write and share short summaries of
the readings, so that everyone can follow the main ideas of the discussions. In
exchange for your right to vote on discussion topics, you are expected to
prepare for every class by reading the assigned articles or their summaries.

At the beginning of the semester, you will sign up for topics that interest you
the most. You will be expected to write two summaries for at least one article
in each of these topics. The first summary should take 3 minutes to read. The
second should take 30 seconds. Summaries must be shared with other summarizers
on Piazza by 5pm on Friday before class.

Each Friday 5pm-6pm, any student who has written a summary may attend the small
group discussion with the course staff on the upcoming topic. Expect a lively
debate. Afterward, summaries will be merged, edited, and released to the class.

**Essays.** In addition, you will write three short essays that contain your
original analysis of issues from the class. All students will write about the
same topics, and your work will be reviewed by your peers. Details of this peer
review system will be posted shortly.

**Grading.** The course is graded P/NP. The reason for that policy is to ensure
that you can feel free to express opinions different from those of the
instructors, both in class meetings and in written work.

In order to receive a passing grade in CS 195, you must:

 * Attend at least 10 of the 12 class sessions (not counting the first)
 * Complete at least 10 of the 12 before-class surveys.
 * Summarize at least 3 articles, for which you will sign up at the beginning
   of the semester.
 * Submit the 3 short essays and receive a passing peer review on each.
 * Provide peer reviews for 9 essays.
